1D OpenMP Particle-in-Cell (PIC) BEPS1 codes
by Viktor K. Decyk and Joshua Kelly, UCLA
copyright 1994-2017, regents of the university of california

These codes are part of a set of 1d PIC codes for educational use.  They
are designed for Linux using OpenMP but will also compile for Mac OS X.
OpenMP is used for parallelization.

A Software License for use of this code is in the document:
../Documents/License(CommercialReservation)

A description of the design of these codes and its components is in the
document:
../Documents/BEPS1Design.pdf

A description of the capabilities of these codes and its components is
in the document:
../Documents/EduBEPS1C.pdf

Details about the mathematical equations and units used in this code is
given in the document:
../Documents/UPICModels.pdf.

The makefile is setup to use gcc and gfortran with Linux.  It should
also work with MacOS X.

There are 3 Python scripts for electrostatic, electromagnetic, and
darwin models, called mbeps1.py, mbbeps1.py, and mdbeps1.py,
respectively.  They require 3 dynamic libraries, libmpush1.so,
libmbpush1.so, and libmdpush1.so, respectively, which are located in
mbeps1.source.

To compile these libraries in the current (mbeps1) directory, execute:

make

To execute, one first needs to copy an input file from the Examples
directory to the current directory.  The files for the electrostatic
code are in the Examples/ES directory, those for the electromagnetic
code are in the Examples/EM directory, and those for the darwin code
are in the Examples/Darwin directory.  To run the electrostatic code
with the plasma wave example, type:

cp Examples/ES/input1.plasma input1
 
To execute, then type:

python program_name

where program_name is either: mbeps1.py, mbbeps1.py, or mdbeps1.py

There are also 3 Fortran codes for electrostatic, electromagnetic, and
darwin models, called mbeps1, mbbeps1, and mdbeps1, respectively.
They do not have a GUI.  To compile them, execute:

make fortran

To execute, type the name of the executable:

./program_name

where program_name is either: mbeps1, mbbeps1, or mdbeps1

For more details about compilation, see mbeps1.source/README

